---
layout: post
title:      "The First Project"
date:       2020-07-27 19:56:04 +0000
permalink:  the_first_project
---

After completing the “Module 1 Final Project” I feel both the biggest sense of relief and anxiety at the same time.  The project goes beyond what I would consider a research project.  Initially, I thought that the prompt seemed relatively straight forward and not too challenging.  Provided an <i>estimated</i> amount of time needed to complete the project, a group setting to split up the work, and the unlimited resources that was available to me, I naively tackled the prompt with too much confidence.  Passing through learn.co lessons comfortably and getting along with my group members did not save me from the challenge of coding a program to filter and analyze large amounts of data.

The project involved more research on coding than anything else (even the prompt).  I believe that it is possible to finish the project quickly in the given estimated time, but only if everything goes as planned without <b>any</b> mistakes.  Once given the prompt, my group and I immediately came up with a solid plan to guide our research.  We also created a timeline of goals that would have us finishing the project within a week and half comfortably.  The timeline unfortunately was very stretched out.  I found myself constantly looking for help on google for mostly troubleshooting purposes.  I had an objective in mind and knew most of the time how to obtain it (given the learn.co material).  But when condensing the code and piecing all the smaller parts of code together, there were so many errors that took hours to fix (from typos to much more complex issues).  Some errors were so time consuming that I had to give up and find other ways to manipulate the data to get what I wanted.

The groupwork environment served as a double-edged sword.  I enjoyed working with the group to tackle the prompt together: it created a natural feeling of support and motivation as we all relied on each other to reach the end goal.  But life has a tendency to get involved and create a much more challenging environment to work in.  There will always be disagreements in any group setting: I anticipated this.  I did not expect that I would feel responsible for holding the group back, ever.  I felt a few times the group waiting on my portion of the code to continue the project, but when I come across a bug it could take me between a few seconds to a few hours to fix it.  Gauging time while coding is definitely one of the most challenging aspects for me.  I, also, did not expect the collaboration problems that my group and I would come across.  Everyone codes differently so it is very easy to get lost in the variables, style, and methodology of someone else’s code.  (I’m used to independent coding assignments, even in group settings).  When everyone’s style of coding is mixed together, it becomes a recipe for more bugs.  There is a very large silver lining I’ve discovered working with my group: I learn a lot about everything from code, to people, to random things.  I’ve honestly, for the most part, enjoyed working with my team and had a lot of fun utilizing the git terminal to collaborate our code.

I felt the largest sense of relief as I finished the last of my editing contributions to the final code my group is submitting.  It feels so liberating and I have learned so much about coding, myself, and other people (and a little bit about the movie industry).  That feeling of fixing a bug or completing a code feels so accomplishing, it’s addicting.  But oddly, after completing this project, I feel anxiety immediately after my sigh of relief.  This field is packed with so much information, I feel that no matter how much I learn and prepare myself, there will always be a billion more concepts that I will not know or understand.  But the anxiety doesn’t necessarily feel scary, it feels rather motivating and exciting.  I am moving to discover what else I will learn.

